#summary Step-by-step ClockTHREE assembly instructions

= Introduction =

Add your content here.


= Details =

Outline
  * [Components]
  * [LEDs]
  * [Enclosure]


-------------------------------------------

each step:
  * [parts]
  * [tools]
  * [prcedure]
  * [photo]

= Tips =
  * Take breaks often.  Fatigue will increase the possibility that you will make a mistake.
  * == Soldering: ==
    * We assume that this is NOT your first soldering project.  If it is, we'd suggest getting a cheap learn to solder kit to get started.  If this is your first project in a while, here is a quick refresher on soldering.  The main thing is to double and triple check the part is the is in the correct place with the correct orientation (if applicable).  While de-soldering is possible, it is troublesome and time consuming and risky.  Make it a goal that you will not have to de-solder in the course of making a clock.
    * After each step, evaluate the solder joints from the front and back of the board.  On the back, the solder should be shiny and make a volcano shape as opposed to a dome shape. On the front, you should see that the solder came all the way trough the board. If you do make a mistake, don't panic.  Use a solder sucker to remove the solder and pull the piece gingerly while applying heat.  If you damage a trace in the process of de-soldering, send a picture of the damaged area and we will help you make the most of the situation.  It may be possible to "blue wire" around the damage.

CPU Support:
Solder the CPU support hardware from lowest profile part to highest.  
That way when the board is flipped over, the parts are pushed flush against the board.

STEP1: Start by soldering the resistors. The orientation (polarity) does not matter.

Parts
  * R22 10K brown-black-orange
  * R31 10K
  * R17 10K
  * R18 10K
  * R19 10K
  * R23 10K
  * R25 1K brown-black-red
  * R26 1K
  * R20 4K7 yellow-violet-red
  * R21 4K7
  * R33 680 blue-grey-brown
  * R30 100 brown-black-brown

U5 jumper (zero ohm resistor):  There is a spot on the circuit board for a voltage regulator: U5 7805.  Since we use a 5 volt wall wart this part is unnecessary.  You will jumper over this part by soldering in a small wire
between pin locations 1 and 3 (the outside holes).  We used a scrap resistor lead.

Step 2 Diode. The next tallest part is the diode: D1. Orintation does matter on these so be careful! The positive lead of a diode is called the anode and the negative lead is called the cathode.  A stripe indicates the cathode lead and must correlate to the stripe on the board.

D1 1N4148:  This is a fast switching diode for the DBG led.  This diode looks like a browm glass bead with a black strip on one end indicating the cathode.
Make sure this strip is aligned with the white stripe on the PCB.

Step 3 small caps: These come is two styles, brown ceramic labeled 104 and white plastic labled 1J100.
Polarity is does not matter on these parts.
  * C3 100nF
  * C6 100nF
  * C7 100nF
  * C9 100nF

Step 4 Sockets:  All of the large ICs have sockets.  This avoids the risk of having to desolder an IC (ick) and also eliminates the possibilty of overheating the IC. Technically speaking polarity does not matter with
the sockets (although the IC's themselves have polarity). There is however a preferred orienation.  The small notch on one end indicates the pin 1 slot for the IC.  The correct orientation will will reinforce the correct orietation when you insert the IC.
  * U1 12x2 pin wide (600 mils)
  * U2 12x2 pin wide (600 mils)
  * U4 12x2 pin wide (600 mils)
  * U3 14x2 pin skinny (300 mils)

Step 5 Right angle buttons: These buttons pop into place with a small squeeze on the back pins.
  * Sw1
  * Sw2
  * Sw3
  * Sw4
  * Sw5


Step 6 Speaker: The polarity matters on the speaker.  The plus sign on the speaker must coincide with the plus sign on the board.  The board will accomodate two different speaker pin spacings.  Use the bottom pin and either of the top two pins, whichever is a better fit.
  * SP1

Step 7 Power Jack: Only fits one way.
  * J1 V_IN

Step 8 Power LED.  Use any color you like.  A red led is included in the kits.  Polarity matters.  The long lead is the anode, the short lead is the cathode.  The flat side on the silk screen image and LED indicate the
cathode (short lead).  
You can do a mini-smoke test after this LED is installed.  
Power up the board by plugging in the wall wart into J1.  The LED should light.  If not check the connectivity of all components in the power LED circuit.

J1+ -> D3 -> U5 jumper -> R25 -> D4 -> J1-

Step 8 16 MHz. resonator: Polarity does not matter.  This is a small three-pin part is either blue or brown.  Solder in in either orientation.
X1

Step 